# 2023-Mass-Shooting-Correlations
The purpose of this analysis was to find correlations with mass shootings in 2023. The motivation behind this was an article that went viral about how there were 180 mass shootings in 2023 and we were only in the month of
April. The common correlations noted in articles seemed to be gun ownership, mental health, social isolation, ideological beliefs and domestic violence. I wanted to look into gun ownership as access to guns and the amount
of ownership seems like a likely correlation. I calculated the Correlation coefficient of -.20 which shows weak correlation since it is closer to 0. Having a negative value shows it is closer to having an negative correlation than postive. I calculated a P-value of 0.17 which is greater than the significance level of 0.05 so its shows the correlation coefficient could have occured by chance and is not statistically significant. Looking further I looked into Poverty Rate and Poverty Population correlations with mass shootings. For poverty rate I calculated a Correlation coefficient of .30 which shows a fairly weak postive correlation but is higher relative to the Gun Ownership correlation. I calculated a P-value of 0.04 which is less than the significance level of 0.05 which shows that their is a level of statistical significance in the Correlation Coefficient.
For Poverty Population, I calculated a Correlation coefficient of 0.83 which is a strong positive correlation that is close to 1. This correlation was much higher than both the Poverty Rate and Gun Ownership Rate
I calculated a P-value of 0.0000000000000089 which is less than the significance level (.05) which shows that their is a statistical significance in the Correlation. In the scatterplot shown in the python code and Tableau, it shows the mass shootings increase as the poverty population in a state reaches around 500,000 people. This leads to questions about how mass poverty can effect us all and what kind of effects does poverty have on a person's mind. Can social disadvantage and marginalization cause hopelessness and frustration in a society? Could higher crime rate in states with a high poverty population influence violent behaviors? What solutions can be done to help with the wealth gap in America?
